James de Assis Silva, MBA


Email/hangouts: james.assis at gmail.com

Facebook: jamesdeassis.silva

City: Canoas / RS / Brazil


|   **IT INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT**


IT Infrastructure Analyst and Consultant with longstanding experience leading the implementation and
support of enterprise network architectures. Develops and deploys IT vision, policies, project
management standards and methodologies to ensure the effective completion of high-visibility
initiatives. Has good reputation for defining enterprise technology strategies/solutions that reduce costs,
improve efficiencies, support organizational goals and maximize the technology investment. A highly
resourceful, flexible, innovative, and enthusiastic project manager using the best practices.
Professional with MBA and 10+ years of experience in Administration Technology.

Currently I'm working at Globo.com, the internet branch of the largest mass 
media group in South America and I'm responsible for search engine and live transmission events systems.
Design and deploy infrastructure solutions for all internal development teams. 
Research new technologies that help build and run large scale, mission critical services at the web portal. 

Areas of Expertise
- Enterprise Architecture Planning
- Infrastructure Deployment
- Data Center Management and Operation
- Enterprise Virtualization Systems
- Database and Simulation Cluster
- Operations Systems
- Security
- Physics Computation


== EDUCATION ==
**MBA in Information Technology (2007)** - Univ. do Vale do Rio dos Sinos (UNISINOS);

**Bachelor of Physics (BS) Degree (2003)** - Univ. Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS).

== PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE ==


=== Globo.com - Porto Alegre/RS  ===

May 2015 to present

Position: System Administrator Senior

=== Globo.com - Rio de Janeiro/RJ  ===

The Major Communication portal of Brazil


May 2013 to May 2015

Position: System Administrator Senior

Member of system administration team that works side by side with 20+ internal Scrum teams to design, build and validate the infrastructure solutions used at the portal. Development of a strong DevOps culture, bringing together developers and system administrators in an agile process focused on reducing time to market for new products. Consolidation of the internal efforts to build a private cloud based on Apache CloudStack and Tsuru PaaS. Responsible for sites like globoesporte.com and cartolafc.

=== Soma Investimentos - Porto Alegre/RS ===
Multimedia Communication Provider

November 2011 to February 2013

Position: IT Infrastructure Manager

Start-up VOIP Project to focus on the residential market in Brazil. The name is Pligg and it is a device
that plugs into a USB port on the user's computer and this allows to make unlimited phone calls to in
Brazil and USA. Responsible for design and implementation of complete data center solution to expect
600.000 users in first year (Site Reference: http://www.pligg.com.br).

Responsible for:
- Autonomous System and CIDR block Licensing;
- Many internet connections with BGP Infrastructure, routing policies and IXP connections (PTT
Metro São Paulo);
- Data center Infrastructure with 40 appliances servers with many system including ERP System,
- VOIP Servers, Mail Marketing System, Database Cluster System and others small services like
- DNS, firewalls and web load balancers;


=== Physics of Institute / UFRGS - Porto Alegre/RS ===
Research and Education in Physics

Since 2008

Position: Consultant in IT applying to Computer Physics

Applied consulting practice for infrastructure and computation physics.
- Improve IT department of institute;
- Help improve IT security policy definition;
- Restructure network and server infrastructure;
- Restructure storage infrastructure;
- Responsible for planning and implementing a new update computer park that has 700
Workstations;
- Network and System administrator consultant;
- Cluster Linux Computing using MPI, Torque and Maui;
- Site Reference: http://ada.if.ufrgs.br.


=== Taghos Tecnologia - Porto Alegre/RS ===
Media cache and content delivery solutions for internet providers

February 2011 - November 2011

Position: Embedded System Developer

Development of a complete embedded system for an edge router appliance based on FreeBSD;
Development of web applications for system management and monitoring;


=== Datacom - Porto Alegre/RS ===
Leading Manufacture of Network Equipment for Telecommunication in Latina America

May 2005 - November 2010

Position: IT Infrastructure Manager / System Administration

Lead team of 5 resources in technology management and support operations encompassing 500
workstations, analog and IP phones, PBX and network infrastructure distributed in 3 data center.
- Manager of the technical support team responsible for network administrator and support;
- Responsible for network infrastructure, servers, storages, switches and services;
- Responsible for storage infrastructure which includes Dell and EMC storages: ISCSI & fiber
channel;
- Responsible for firewalls and VPN administrator
- Planned, implemented and helped maintain an installed computer park that has 500 workstation;
- Managed 50 servers spread over 5 sites;
- Directly responsible for the supervision of the support service and IT Department;
- Created information security policy;
- Help improve CRM - ERP Systems
- Help improve Oracle Database Administrator;
- Industrial Automation;
- Planned and implemented new technologies;


=== Rede Nacional de Ensino e Pesquisa (RNP) - Porto Alegre/RS ===
Research and Education Network Provider

Aug 2003 - May 2005

Position: System Administrator

Day-to-day infrastructure operations, project planning and delivery, operations and support.
- Network administration: ipv4 and ipv6 systems;
- Backbone Routing: BGP, OSPF; switches L2 and L3 layer;
- Network Monitoring System based in SNMP Protocol;
- Implantation and support in distance learning system;
- Member of CERT-RS (Computer Emergency Readiness Team - Rio Grande do Sul).


== LANGUAGE AND COMPUTER SKILLS ==
Portuguese Language: Native proficiency;

English Language: Professional working proficiency;

Operation System: Any operating system is welcome !

Networking and Services: Directory Services, LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, VPN, VoIP, SIP, MPLS,

VNC, VLAN Segregation, Firewalls, Routing and Switching;

Storages: DELL, Equallogic series PS6000 and EMC series CX (Fiber Channel/ ISCSI);

Web: Apache, NginX, IIS, TOMCAT, PHP and other modern languages for web;

Databases: Oracle and MySQL including Cluster Versions;

Backup: AMANDA, TAR e DUMP and proprietary tools;

Programming Languages: Shell Script, Perl, a bit of Ruby and Python, C and Fortran;

Email: Postfix, Sendmail, Spamassassin, DSPAM, SPF, Graylist, IMAP and POP;

Firewall/UTM and VPN: Juniper, Cisco, IPTABLES, Mikrotik, OpenVPN, PF and IPFW.


**You can find this resumme updated on http://jas042.github.io/resume/ or contact me in http://br.linkedin.com/in/jamesassis
